
RENSSELAER MANIATTY PUBLIC LICENSE VERSION 1.0
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION, AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it
may be distributed under the terms of this Rensselaer Public License
(also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as
"you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which
has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the Library"
means either the Library/code or any derivative work under copyright
law.

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it including any associated interface definition files,
and scripts used to control compilation  and installation of the
library.

1. You may copy and distribute copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice,
the authors list, the grants list, and disclaimer of warranty.

2. You may modify your copy of the Library/code or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that
you also meet all of these conditions:

	a) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
	stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

	b) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
	table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the
	facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is
	invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in
	the event an application does not supply such function or table, the
	facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose
	remains meaningful.

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and
can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.

At your discretion, you may submit the differences between the Library
and your work based on the Library for inclusion in the source code
repository maintained by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Should you
decide to submit the changes, you agree to provide Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute with a joint copyright assignment of the changes,
and you agree to sign such a copyright assignment form at the request of
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

3. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative
of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the
terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you do the following:

	a) Include prominently an appropriate copyright notice, the authors
	list, the grants list, and disclaimer of warranty.

	b) Include prominent notices of any files modified stating that you
	changed the files and the date of any change.

4. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library,
but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked
with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a work, in
isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls
outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates
an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains
portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".
The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 5 states
terms for distribution of such executables.

5. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

6. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license
would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way
you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely
from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

7. You may not use the names of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,
SCOREC, Scientific Computation Research Center, nor the names of any of
the software contributors to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

8. THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE
OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU
ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

9. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY
(INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED
INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR
OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
